+++
title = 'On spirituality and philosophy'
date = 2024-08-28T14:17:47-04:00
draft = false
+++

I have found that a lot of people think that philosophy and spirituality are closely related. But they are not.

Philosophy aims to answer any question that can not be answered, and from which the more important ones are:

- What is the meaning of life?

- What happens after we die?

A lot of people answer these questions with their religion, their belief gives meaning to all of the human experience.

Some people don't really believe in any religion but are spiritual nonetheless, and they try to answer these questions by other means.

Tarot, Zodiac, Arcana, Wicca are all examples of the same thing: To give life and the chaos inherent to it some order, some sense.

And yeah, philosophy tries to do the same. But philosophy has many areas for reasoning about it: Realism, Rationalism, Empirism, Metaphysics, etc.

But the main objetive of Philosophy is to try to answer any questions and challenge the answers, not just to give life meaning.

All the esoteric cults try to explain the world by injecting some magic into it, some piece of information or knowledge that only a specific group of people have access to.

Most of philosophy tries to give meaning to life just by the use of logic and reason, not by magic. Spirituality doesn't have anything to do with the act of philosophising.

And i understand the confusion, it just so happens that both try to give an answer to the same question. But the approach is completely different.

They are not the same.
