+++
title = 'Spirituality as a means of emotion processing'
date = 2024-08-28T14:17:47-04:00
draft = false
+++

I firmly stand by the belief that all religion, spirituality, and esoteric magic is just a way to avoid the existential dread and the chaos in the world.

We humans have a tendency to search for the cause of any problem, but sometimes there just isn't one. This causes us a lot of pain, we evolved to see causality, to search patterns and explanations, not finding one doesn't feel right.

Christianity tells us that good actions and love for other people yield eternal life, isn't that an artificial reward that justifies goodness?

Hinduism teaches us about 7 chakras, energy centers distributed around the body. Every one is related to an emotion or feeling, if they get blocked, we feel some kind of pain or unwellness. Isn't that just a "rationalization"? A way to understand our own emotional imbalance?

The Zodiac tries to categorize people based on their birth date. Isn't that way to simplify psychology, to think about people without too much effort?

Rituals, voodo dolls, "amarres". Are they ways of trying to control people, destiny, or causality? The world is just too chaotic; doesn't this try to give means of control to regular people?

The human mind tries to simplify, to generalize, to understand and connect every piece of information we get. But this creates unscientific conclusions, superstitions, and irrationality.

We have to improve our critical thinking skills; if we don't, we are condemned to live in a world of magic and spirits.
